Now, if you’d just
take a look at today’s text,
it says: “Come and witness
the activities of Jehovah”—witness.
Now, according to a dictionary,
a witness is someone
who has personal knowledge of something.
So how can we be Witnesses of Jehovah?
What personal knowledge
do we have of his activities?
Well, first of all,
we can testify to the fact
that Jehovah can see into the future.
And when he does that,
he is right 100 percent of the time.
And second, we know that no one can prevent
what Jehovah foresees from coming true.
All of Jehovah’s prophecies come true.
Now, to illustrate the first point,
that Jehovah can see into the future,
let’s consider two remarkable prophecies
concerning the destruction
of Jerusalem and its temple.
Now, we know that
through the prophet Jeremiah,
Jehovah foretold
that Jerusalem and the temple
would be destroyed by the Babylonians.
Did it come true?
Absolutely—in 607 B.C.E.
But Jehovah went further.
He said that Jerusalem would be rebuilt.
“They will rebuild the ancient ruins;
“they will raise up
the desolated places of the past,
and they will restore the devastated cities.”
And true worship would also be restored.
So that was quite a level of knowledge.
But there’s more.
Jehovah went further.
Jehovah also indicated
that the spiritual revival wouldn’t last.
Now, that is remarkable.
And it’s implied by what we read
in the second part
of Daniel 9:26.
I’d like you to have a look at this.
We’re going to be reading
two parts of this verse,
and it’s quite interesting
—Daniel 9:26.
So now, what’s our objective here?
It’s to see that Jerusalem and its temple
would be destroyed a second time
and that true worship would not last.
It says in the second part of verse 26:
“And the people of a leader who is coming
will destroy the city and the holy place.”
Now, when these words were written,
Jerusalem and the temple
were already in ruins.
But Jehovah doesn’t say,
‘Nebuchadnezzar has destroyed
the city and its temple.’
He says:
“The people of a leader who is coming.”
The Roman general Titus in 70 C.E.
“will destroy the city and the holy place.”
In order for that prophecy to be fulfilled,
Jerusalem and the temple
would have to be rebuilt
and then destroyed a second time.
Now, that is quite a level of knowledge
—quite a level of information.
But what would make this necessary?
Why, when the Jews
came back to the Promised Land
and they were intent
on restoring true worship,
why would this fail?
And why would Jerusalem and the temple
be destroyed a second time?
Part of it is due to what we find
in the first part of verse 26:
“Messiah will be cut off.”
So Jehovah foretold, foresaw,
that when the Messiah came,
the Jews would reject him.
He would be cut off.
And because of that, partly because of that,
Jerusalem and the temple would be destroyed,
as it happens, in 70 C.E.
Now, wait a minute, wait a minute.
Let’s think about that a minute.
The Messiah comes first
and Jerusalem and the temple
are destroyed after that in 70 C.E.
What does that mean?
It means that the Messiah
comes before 70 C.E.
So we might ask our Jewish friends,
why are you still waiting for the Messiah?
70 C.E. has come and gone.
Well, the Messiah came,
and he too proved to be a true prophet.
And a remarkable prophecy of Jesus
is found in the Sermon on the Mount.
Let’s have a look at it and consider
the implications of this prophecy.
This is Matthew chapter 7,
and we’ll read verses 22 and 23,
an amazing prophecy.
Now, imagine: At this point, Jesus’ teachings
have not spread beyond Israel.
But notice verses 22 and 23:
“Many will say to me on that day:
“‘Lord, Lord,
did we not prophesy in your name,
“‘and expel demons in your name,
“and perform many powerful works
in your name?’
“And then I will declare to them:
‘I never knew you!
Get away from me,
you workers of lawlessness!’”
Now, isn’t that amazing?
If Jesus had simply predicted
that his teachings would spread
throughout the earth,
you might say, “Well, there’s
nothing remarkable about that.”
But Jesus is saying something different.
Jesus is foretelling
a great apostasy from his teachings.
Jesus is foretelling the birth of Christendom
300 years before the event.
So Jesus foresees that many
are going to turn away from the truth.
And by the end of the first century,
that apostasy was already at work, wasn’t it?
There were sects
—the sect of Nicolaus,
for example, and other sects.
And now they’re on the cusp
of the great darkness,
the great apostasy, that’s going to set in
from the second century on.
And with this in mind, what does Jehovah do?
He makes an amazing statement
—Revelation 14—
‘144,00 will be on Mount Zion with the Lamb.’
There were nowhere near 144,000
in the truth in the first century.
And here Jehovah is saying
there are going to be 144,000 in heaven
with the Lamb at the end.
But not only that, he goes further.
There’s going to be
a ‘great crowd that no man can number.’
How could that ever come true?
Ours is the God of true prophecy.
Well, that’s prophecy.
What about the second point?
And that is that no one
can prevent prophecy from being fulfilled.
The Devil would love
to prevent that from taking place.
Think about Revelation 14.
If the Devil could make the number
one short of 144,000,
he’d be happy because he would show
that Jehovah was inaccurate
in what he foretold.
And so that’s one
of the reasons why the Devil
has made war on the remnant
of the seed of the woman,
if at all possible, to prevent that number
of 144,000 from coming to pass.
But, of course, he’s going to fail.
And what about the prophecy in the Bible
that America and Britain
would become a dual world power?
Now, Britain wouldn’t become a world power
at all if France
had anything to say about it.
France and Britain were sworn enemies.
And for many, many, years,
France was much richer
and much more powerful
than Britain was.
And finally,
at the Battle of Waterloo in 1815,
France had one last chance
to prevent Britain
from becoming a world power.
And France should have won that battle.
Everything was stacked against the British.
But there was a driving rain,
a fatal miscalculation
on the part of Napoleon,
and a few other factors
that foiled their attempt.
And Britain did become a world power.
And at the end of the 19th century,
it’s quite true that the sun
never set on the British Empire.
But now, America and Britain
were supposed to become a dual world power,
and Britain wasn’t the least bit interested
in sharing its power with America.
It tried to prevent America
from separating as a colony.
There was a long war,
and there were mistakes made on both sides.
But finally, America gained
its independence from Britain.
Well, what do we find?
Some years after that,
Britain is sharing its power with America.
They are a dual world power.
Fighters against God will never prevail.
We serve “the God of true prophecy.”
And “what he foretells comes to be.”